Privacy Statement

uPetition will not share the information provided by students (name, email, student number) with any third party other than the University of Ottawa (the University), and our Cloud service provider. The data that is stored in the uPetition database is exclusively the name, email, student number, and the verification status (whether or not the student has clicked on the verification link sent by email) of students who have opted to disclose this information to the uPetition team through the form on the uPetition website.

uPetition will not utilize this data for any purpose other than to petition the University to desist in their attempts to enforce the utilization of Respondus software (such as, but not limited to, the Lockdown Browser and the Respondus Monitor), and similar monitoring software, for examinations and other assessments at the University.

uPetition will maintain this data for at most one calendar year, or until the University has agreed to stop all usage of monitoring software for assessments on personal student devices, whichever is shorter. After this period, the full petition will be exported into a text format for archival, and all digital data will be deleted to the fullest extent possible under the contract with the Cloud service provider. While the uPetition team cannot guarantee that the data will be completely erased from the Cloud provider services (as the uPetition team does not have physical access to the Cloud provider servers), the uPetition team will ensure that all access to this information will be limited to the best of our abilities and will be inaccessible to the uPetition team through the Cloud provider's portal.

After the information is exported into paper format for archival, the archival papers will be sealed and only opened upon request of the University, either through a representative of the administration or through a court order.

The uPetition team reserves the right to collect anonymized metadata related to the petition such as, but not limited to, the total number of individuals who have submitted the form on the uPetition website, the total number of verified individuals, and the times at which petition signings have occurred. This data will predominantly be stored in logs and used to enhance the services that the uPetition team will provide for students, such as by providing a running counter of verified signatures on the uPetition website and to determine when the uPetition team needs to scale the resources for hosting the website, as well as for bug fixing.

The full source code for the uPetition website is made available on GitHub at https://github.com/DudeRandom21/Stop-uOttawa-Surveillance and can be reviewed at any time.
